This video is brought to you by audible.
Start listening with a 30 day audible trial,
choose one audio book and two audible originals.
Absolutely free visit audible.com/biographics or text
biographics to 500, 500 and let's get into it.
Rob Lewis Stevenson holds a special place in the hearts and minds of many
readers. He often served as an introduction to real grown up books,
stories like kidnapped and treasure islands may be considered classics,
but they're also full of adventure and intrigue.
The sort of stories that make you wish you are.
One of his charact is sailing the high seas,
looking for buried treasure fighting to reclaim your legacy.
His stories are undoubtedly all classic works of literature.
And while many are told against the backdrop of very real events,
like the Jacky rising of 1745.
There's also something about them that speaks to a sense of grand imagination
along in for adventure and a deep sense of justice.
It's time to pull out your spy glass and take a peak at the life of this
19th century. Scottish writer you'll find there's a reason.
He was so good at telling some of the tallest tales imaginable,
setting them against epic historical backdrops. For much of his life.
His world was only a, what he could see or dream from his sick bed.
Childhood often lays the grounds work for a lifetime.
And for Robert Lewis Stevenson, that was definitely the case.
He was born on November the 13th, 1850, the only child of middle class parents.
His mother came from a family of high education growing up in a world of church
ministers and lawyers.
His father had a job that most people would consider not only respectable,
but pretty cool.
He was an engineer and he was involved in building numerous deep sea lighthouses
along the Scottish coast. For much of his childhood.
The family lived at 17 Harriet Rowe in Edinburgh,
and it's a place that anyone with a healthy respect for Georgian architecture
would truly appreciate build some time between 1802 and 1806.
It was still fairly new when the Stevenson's only child rooms, the halls,
it's easy to imagine a young boy running up and down the stairs.
Joing his way through the hallways aging adventures in the garden,
perhaps turning the giant enamel bath.
His fatherhood installed into a swath of ocean filled with monstrous creatures.
Unfortunately,
Stevenson's childhood was very different when his parents welcomed him into the
world, he was a perfectly normal, healthy boy,
but it wasn't long before he started suffering from severe respiratory pro
problems. Those problems would shape not only his childhood,
but the rest of his life.
Stevenson spent a lot of time during his formative years,
fussed over by anxious parents and cared for by a nurse who would end up having
a major impact on its adult life. He wasn't,
as one might expect hunting for very treasure in the back garden,
or pretending to ride imaginary horses up and down the streets of the city.
Instead,
he spent much of his time swayed in blankets and shuls doted on by the adults
around him learning that he was very fragile.
Historians never quite decided just what it was. He was suffering from.
The original diagnosis was tuberculosis,
but today it suspected that modern medicine would come up with a diagnosis of
bronchiectasis,
which is a series of continuous infections resulting from damage done to the
lining of the bronchial tubes.
A condition often said to be made worse by the presence of dust and D particles,
and often starting with a childhood illness. If that's the case,
there's a sad addendum to his sickly childhood.
His well meaning caregivers were always afraid of drafts making a ill.
So the windows in the home were always closed with some fresh air have made a
difference. Well, it's impossible to say.
What we do know is that Stevenson's childhood nurse had a profound impact on his
life. Her name was Allison Cunningham,
but everyone just called her cumy and she lived with a household for a full two
decades, by all accounts.
She loved the young Stevenson as if he were her own son.
And in addition to being a caregiver, she was also a storyteller.
True Stevenson was often confined to his home or to the strictly regimented life
of a health spa that only in the physical sense,
coming entertained a young charge with various else.
Her Herm Calvinist beliefs forms the backbone of many of the stories with which
she regaled him. But she also told tales of ghosts,
ghouls and other supernatural specters nights were particularly difficult for
Stevenson. From a young age,
she suffered from insomnia and was often kept awake for all hours by illness and
feverish vision frequently was lulled back to sleep by his father who would sit
by his side and invent conversations with imaginary people.
The conversation was always Dr, but always soothing.
Sending the young boy drifting off to sleeve escorted by mad up characters and
conversations, plucked from thin out.
And sometimes it was coming who filled Stevenson's sleepless nights with stories
fuel his nighttime delirium.
If you look at Stevenson's childhood through a more modern lens on parenting,
it's easy to put some of the blame on the shoulders of his guardians.
He was also susceptible to nightmares and there's one school of thought that
suggests the mix of come's religious doctrine, ghost stories, and the fevers.
He frequently ran fueled those isn't those sleepless nights,
but it also feels something else.
His imagination and imagination is not always kind still given that he started
writing his first work at the tender age of six.
He dictated a tale called a history of Moses to his mother.
It's safe to say that from a very young age,
he was enthralled by the power of the story.
His caretaker must receive at least some of the credit for this.
It's been suggested too, that Stevenson's illness didn't just inspire him,
but magnified his ability to write as he grew older and more established,
his letters began to mention the phenomenon of splitting into what he called
myself and the other fellow. It was, he said a side effect of the high fevers.
He so frequently suffered from meant it all sound familiar to anyone who's read
the tale of Jack and height myself.
He said was his rational mind while that other fellow was the side of him that
held the darkness and the creativity for Stevenson, that wasn't scary. He,
it drove him and he believed it helped him create the works that we still love
today.
With the benefit of hindsight,
it seems like a given that Stevenson was a natural writer,
but that belief wasn't always there and his parents certainly didn't want their
only son throwing his life away on what is often a gamble of a career choice.
By the time he was a teenager though,
Stevenson was confident that his future career path would involve the written
word, his father. On the other hand, hoped he would become an engineer.
The third such professional in the family,
resigned Stevenson enrolled at the university of Edinburgh to study engineering.
It was quickly clear that going to just wasn't for him.
And instead of spending his time attending lectures and pouring over his
studies, he was more interested in making friends.
And here is where one of those strange coincidences happened.
One day as the story goes,
Stevenson was simply walking down a street in Edinburgh.
When he bumped into another student,
they got to chatting and ended up heading to a Tavern for a few hours.
Instead of going to class, the other students was JM Barry,
who would go on to write Peter pan beyond his adventures in Netlands Barry wrote
of Stevenson that some men of letters,
not necessarily the greatest have an indescribable charm to which we give our
hearts, the backend compliments, maybe,
but other writers who met Stevenson at the same and over the course of his
career were completely taken with him.
Edmond Goss would later describe their first meeting in London like this.
As Twilight came on, I tore myself away,
but Stevenson walks with me across Hyde park, ands nearly to my house.
He had an engagement and so had I, but I walked a mile or two back with him.
The fountains of, to had been unsealed and they drowned the conventions.
I came home dazzled with my new friend.
One of the things that constantly struck those who met him was the contradictory
duality present with him outwardly. He was incredibly frail at five foot 10,
and he weighed only 116 pounds when he was 23 years old. When he spoke, though,
he could easily capture the attention of a room.
So it wasn't entirely surprising when in 1871,
he did what many people would be terrified to do.
He told his parents that he wasn't going to follow in the family footsteps.
After all Stevenson was going to be a writer,
anyone who has ever dropped a bombshell like that on their parents can probably
imagine how well it went over,
but Stevenson's parents weren completely opposed to the idea.
They only insisted that Stevenson have a backup plan.
So his parents asked him to study law just in case the writing thing didn't take
off. Like he thought it would, he agreed completing his law degree in 1875.
Now guys, just before I get into the, the rest of today's video,
I do wanna take a quick moment to tell you about today's sponsor audible.
Now you guys have probably heard of audible you're on the internet watching this
video. So pretty sure you have,
they have the largest selection of audio books in the world bar, none.
And with that in mind,
you can pick up a whole bunch of Robert Lewis Stevenson's books on audible.
Indeed. They don't just have these straight narrat versions of the books,
but they've also got fantastic dramatizations and other things like that.
So definitely check those out. If you might be interested or personally from me,
I just finished a completely different book,
which was in the plaques by Steven Levy,
which is all about Google and it's history and ideas. So yeah,
you've got Robert Lewin Stevenson over, or the history of Google over here.
Take your pick and good news.
You can get either of those books or any other book,
totally for free start with audible using Alinker you'll get a 30 day trial and
you can use that trial to get one book. But in addition to that,
you'll also get two audible originals. Indeed, each month with audible,
you get one credit, which you can redeem against a, of any value.
Plus you get those two audible originals, like I say, every single month,
plus exchange a book.
If you don't like it and you get to keep your books forever,
start listening with a 30 day audible trial,
choose one audio book and two audible originals,
absolutely free visit audible.com/biographics or text biographics to for
500, 500.
It was just a year after graduating from law school that Stevenson's life would
drastically change. It started with his one for adventure.
Imagination was wonderful,
but he wanted to experience all the things he had dreamed about as a child.
He had first and a canoe trip beginning in ANW and ending in the north of
France. Afterwards,
he headed off to a small town south of Paris called GRE solo.
It wasn't a Ren choice.
The town was a favorite among the artistic and Bohemian communities.
And Stevenson already had a cousin living there, Robert a mare,
but it was here also that he would meet the love of his life,
but any then of gr Osborne ended up in France after a fairly epic story of her
own. When she was only 17 years old,
she married an American military officer named Samuel Osborne following the
American civil war.
He headed off to seek his fortune in the silver minds of Nevada.
He told his wife and daughter to join him and they did Fannie didn't like the
west at all. The Indiana native bought two more children,
but has husbands proved less than honorable sick of his cheating and his
prolonged mysterious disappearances.
She packed up her children and left Nova for Belgium. This was 1875.
It was a time when most women wouldn't have even considered such a thing.
And the first obstacle they faced showed just how different times were she and
her daughter had planned on studying art in Anne were up,
but were told that women were not allowed to enroll in art schools.
They moved on to Paris, but when her youngest son took hill and died,
she retired to a small town in the countryside with her remaining children.
The town of course, was that small artist's community of GRE solo.
And that's where she met Stevenson. They had a lot working against them.
She was 11 years older than him.
She had two children already and technically she was still married to Osborne
Stevenson.
Meanwhile was fresh out of law school had no job or career to speak of and was
still trying to figure out just how he was going to turn this whole writing
thing into a livelihood.
He had already written one book based on his earlier canoe trip,
but one book won't support, family Stevenson, courted Fanny. For two years,
they enjoyed each other's company,
but the presence of another man in her life eventually forced Fannie to
reconsider the one she'd left behind.
She decided to return to California and give her husband another chance
abandoned by the woman. He loved Stevenson set out another adventure.
One that would become the inspiration for his second book travels with a donkey
in the events for 12 days,
he hiked to the events with the help of a donkey who carried his baggage for
him. He covered 120 miles of difficult country, which wasn't just ambitious.
It was outright dangerous. Not everyone was a fan of the book,
particularly because of the treatment of its constitu character.
When Stevenson bought his donkey, he named her modesty.
And by the time the 12 days were over, her value had been cut in half,
getting her to move along involved, Stevenson, delivering regular blows,
and one critic summed up just how horrible it was.
Writing raw eggs and bleeding skin do not move him in the least.
The trip had been taken at least in part, in an attempt to heal a broken hearts,
but their story wasn't over yet in 1879,
Stevenson received a telegram from California. Fannie was sick.
Her husband hadn't changed and she regretted ever leaving Europe in a grand
gesture. That really is the staff of a classic romance,
novel Stevenson hopped on a shipping Glasgow and sailed for America.
After landing in New York,
he took a train all the way from the east coast to the west coast.
And by the time he reached her in Montey, California,
the journey had taken a terrifying toll on his already fragile health,
but Fafa and her children,
it seemed worth every sacrifice by December of 1879,
she had formally divorced Samuel Osborn, less than six months later,
she married Stevenson.
Those early months were filled with extreme heart lows Stevenson.
And his new bride stayed in Napa valley for a time where he wrote the Silverado
squatters, but it was also there that he became seriously ill.
As he developed a new symptom. He began to cough up blood
Stevenson's poor,
never really rebounded after the long trip from Scotland to California and for
the remainder of his life,
the little family moved several times in an attempt to find a climate more
agreeable to his delicate constitution. The first stop was England,
where they lived until 1887, say for the winters,
which were spent in the south of France Stevenson,
supported his family by writing assays and bits of travel journalism,
providing readers with his thoughts on dogs, umbrellas,
and a litany of other common observations. However,
this time is more associated with the publication of his major career
highlights, hero Rosen published treasure island in 1883.
Plus the strange case of Dr Jackel and Mr. Hyde and kidnapped both in 1886,
treasure island in particular came from a brilliant moment of inspiration.
The family was away on holiday staying in a small Scottish town and the day was
rainy and dreary. The story varies a bit.
Some say Stevenson was the ones that first draw the map of a mysterious island
while his stepson Lloyd would later claim it was he who drew it either way.
A map was drawn and Stevenson began to name points of interest,
Spyglass hill skeleton islands.
Then someone added three red crosses and a title of treasure islands.
And the foundation,
one of the literary world's most beloved pirate tales was formed,
ends his a little side.
The map included in various edit of treasure islands was not the original,
that original map was lost somewhere between submitting it to the publisher and
getting the book printed while Stevenson did redraw the map himself.
He was reportedly never quite happy with it.
And the fact that the original map for treasure island is actually lost,
is well kind of appropriate in 1880 sevens.
Stevenson's father died with real reason to stand Britain any longer. You know,
his family left first for a year in America, then to the south Pacific.
Eventually they reached Samoa where they decided to stay at least for a moment
in Samoa. He not only wrote a lot often from the confines of a sick bet,
but he also became a treasured member of the community.
He immersed himself in local politics and activism,
and was even given the Thai of twisted Tyler or the tell of tales.
Originally Samoa had just been another stop on the itinerary with no real
intention of staying there,
but Stevenson gradually came to the conclusion that the climates would be good
for his health. With his mind made up Stevenson,
bought a 300 acre estate and settled into the place that Stevenson and Fanny
considered to be their first real home. Sadly, it would also be their last
On the surface. Their lives should have been idyllic, locals and travelers,
particularly those who had made the journey to Samoa from Scotland were always
welcome at the estate.
They celebrated everything from birthdays to American than food and songs were
more plentiful than the guests at had around 15 servants working to keep the
estate running and Stevenson himself found solace in working the land he took to
gardening and weeding in particular one's writing farming is amusing.
Literature save in results is intolerably stupid.
Nothing is so interesting as weeding.
There was are unhappy undercurrent though,
Fannie aspired to be an artist of her own.
And when he told her that she had the soul of a peasant,
she was extraordinarily offended. Stevenson had meant it as a compliment,
watching gardeners and modernists work to plant and cultivate the land had made
him wonder if writing was real work, physical labor.
It seemed to him was a more early endeavor, but Fannie didn't take it that way.
And the artistic anxiety she had always struggled with only got worse.
Fannie's very presence in Stevenson's life continued to be controversial while
Stevenson's parents had come to accept her.
This widow mother lived with them in Samoa. His friends did not.
They resented her for telling friends they couldn't visit.
And for inserting herself into his work,
Chilon claims that she was responsible for the success of Jacqueline Hyde,
claiming that she had insisted he completely rewrite the first draft of the work
while there was no love loss between Fanny and Stevenson's friends there,
little doubt, they truly loved each other. But as the years of the, uh,
state and Samoa went on,
Fanny continued to struggle more and more with a nervous illness that had
plagued after years, as for Stevenson,
he did continue to write while living at the island estate,
but he would never match the success of his earlier works.
Most of his later publications were historical works or travel essays. And when,
and they didn't take off,
he grew increasingly worried about money that stress ratcheted it up with the
release of one of his histories that detailed the fight between colonial powers
that were vying for control of the islands. When the book was published,
he began to worry that it was so controversial that he could be deported
Stevenson's stress and health issues.
They finally had critical mass on December the third,
1894 here were worked on a fiction project in the morning and wrote some letters
in the afternoon later, he helped Fannie make some mayonnaise.
That's what he was doing when he collapsed. And he was dead by evening,
likely of a cerebral hemorrhage.
Rob Lewis Stevenson was buried on the island and his grave is marked by a stone
on which is inscribed.
The epi avatar that he wrote for himself under the wide and star sky,
dig the grave and let me lie. Glad I did life and gladly die.
And I laid me down with a, will this be the verse you grave for me here?
He lies where he longed to be home is the sailor home from the sea and the
hunter home from the hill Fanny and her children only stayed on the estate for a
few months after his death. Although her ashes were buried beside him,
after her passing in 1914, when they were reunited,
it was to a huge celebration on Samoa as they were laid to rest in what has been
called the most inaccesible grave in English letters.
It's an appropriate description for the final resting place of the man who wrote
the world's most famous beloved tale of pirates and treasure.
So I really hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up button. Don't forget to subscribe. Also,
please do check at our fantastic sponsor audible they're linked to below and
thank you for watching.